hey everyone me again laszlo Montgomery
with another China history podcast
Wade's on part three today is the
primary source for this episode I'm
still using University of Washington
professor Patricia Buckley a breeze
recent biography of Emperor wait song
that's by Harvard University Press have
an amazon link to the book on my
homepage the first two episodes we
watched weights on grow up within the
system enjoying a nice perfect life then
in the year 1100 his older brother the
truth song emperor dies suddenly an
affliction that befell monarchs of all
kinds and Wade song against his will
became the new emperor and we saw how as
a patron of literature and the arts and
a builder of temples and monuments and
the the ultimate decider of what was
tasteful and what wasn't he perhaps new
no peer in all of the Chinese imperial
history he didn't want to ascend the
throne when Empress young told him he
had to but but he got used to it and
once he settled in wait song embraced
being the Emperor and all that it meant
as a literate us and an artist Wade's on
believed his achievements gave him the
right to assume he was the wisest of
them all when it came to matters of
literature design and the Fine Arts the
same went with Imperial culture and
Palace rituals Quaid's own love to get
in the middle of this to surrounding
himself with the greatest talent of the
day no matter painter or craftsman
weight zone did this with a passion he
attracted the best and he surrounded
himself with all this talent all the
time and made himself the center of it
all and to show you he didn't just sit
around all day cavorting with artists
and poets wait song by 11 16 had managed
to sire and accumulate 50 children
already and he'd still have another 15
more to go within just his first two
years on the throne Quade songs five
consorts had given birth to five girls
and two boys including the crown prince
we'll get to towards the end of this
episode this made weights on the champ
he was the undisputed champ his closest
rival as far as number of children went
was the Shenzhen Emperor from the Tang
Dynasty yet 63rd was Ming Tai Tzu aka
the Hong Wu Emperor to urine Chang he
had 42 even kang xi and his grandson
Shenlong with their six-decade rains
only had 35 + 27 respectively by the
17th year of his reign wayne song was
already a grandfather oh what a happy
life too bad it's all about to change in
this episode I thought before I put down
my quill let's skim the surfaces of
Patricia he breeze book and look at some
of the things that went down in the
palace there was the jaw imperial family
all of Wade's owns 20 consorts and 123
other palace women the eunuchs the grand
councillors the Buddhist and Taoist and
all the many scholars and others who for
one reason or another had access to wait
zone let's look at that I mentioned
before wait song well what is there to
say except he he believed in Taoism that
was the center of his life as he began
his second decade on the throne we
mentioned a Leo Hong Kong last episode
the great Taoist master who waits on put
so much trust and faith in at the
beginning of his reign until master Leo
past and 1108 this episode will meet
another master we'll look at the
geopolitical dynamic that defined the
times the Liao dynasty in the north
founded by Galu I'll bochy who we
introduced in CHP episode 126 they're
about to go down hard the shisha the
Western sha there's still a viable force
out in the northwest of song China west
of the Liao borders but most of all this
is the time some some real bad asses
make themselves known and we're going to
look at them too these were the Jurchens
and mandarin they're called the new gen
as we begin our story this time the
Jurchens are still subjects of the
katana liao much later on they're going
to be known by a new name the man shoes
and they're going to invade China and
1644 and set up the the Ching dynasty
the Council of State usually had
anywhere from five to seven men
including the top to the senior and
junior grand councilor their main job
called for them to handle any and all
matters concerning the state if it rose
to their level of importance they would
debate the matters internally advise the
Emperor and use their influence to get
some sort of decision then they had to
send the order on down the line and make
sure it got executed there were 47 men
who served on weight zones various
councils of state from previous episodes
we remember weeds on went with the same
slate of councillors that his deceased
brother Judd xong had when the politics
became too out of control he hearkened
back to the time of his father tion zone
and brought back that generation of
reform minded councillors the one
constant in his reign was the presence
of Thai Jing as Wade song senior grand
councilor ty Ching had climbed his way
up the ladder rung by rung walking over
the body of some boo to get where he
wanted to go there were three big
political shakeups in Wade songs rain
and all came about during times when
Wade's on was influenced by others to
get rid of Thai Jing by 1120 hi jing was
way past his sell by dates and he he
insisted to retire but wait son wanted
him on the team even though he was old
feeble and despised by his enemies at
court he was quite a polarizing figure
who could count enemies and both the
reformer and conservative factions but
wait songs rain was one in which the
Reformers had the equivalent of a
supermajority so the laws that were
passed were rather constant this is how
wait song viewed hi Ching i quote think
of Shenzhen when
first devoting himself to seeking good
government advanced one unsure making
him grand councilor and with him devised
ways to achieve good order brilliantly
forming the institutions for a king ones
great accomplishments extended
everywhere in the realm and he was
treated in an unprecedented Lee
magnanimous way when i began to rely on
my good assistant to reinstate my
predecessors plans i employed the right
man therefore i have not dared treat my
trusted assistant in a way inferior how
shuns own treated one unsure
consequently for twenty years the world
has been at peace and not one man or
animal has failed to benefit even
children and servants know that tie jing
is the grand councilor who brought this
great piece now hi jing wasn't the only
one there were a few dozen others who
came and went and also advised waits on
he was a decent boss to work for if a
counselor gained the Emperor's trust he
was often given a free hand to get the
job done and didn't have the Emperor
always poking his nose around like he
did with all the monument building and
literary related matters poetry painting
and calligraphy those three things
provided an additional bond between wait
song and tie Ching it's high jig was
very lauded in his day for his abilities
with not only a paintbrush but a
calligraphy brush as well there are
several Quaid's on paintings hanging in
Beijing and Taipei where the Emperor
asked tie Jing to embellish them by
adding some of his calligraphy to the
painting and as a poet ty Jing could
hold his own no matter who was in the
room so ty Jing was the central
character in the world of weight song
for most of his reign wait don't believe
you picked the right person if you if
you picked well they would handle
everything for you that's how he treated
side ching-he have full trust in him but
ty Jing was so polarizing there were
others who were convinced hi Ching was
was leading the Song Dynasty down the
toilet even though wait song succumbed
to political pressure and got rid
of them a few times he always brought hi
jing back in retrospect though one of
the main criticisms historians have of
the Quaid song Emperor was that for
political and state matters he preferred
to leave that up to his chief ministers
and play a backseat role his enjoyment
and pleasure came from matters
concerning poetry calligraphy painting
architecture Taoism and other leisurely
pursuits I haven't covered the history
of the eunuchs as a topic yet some
dynasties they were particularly
powerful and devious the late hon and
late tongue in their final years of
decay were two of the more famous
periods when the combined influence of
the palace eunuchs was strongest at the
court of weight song there were two a
particular note one was Tom Guan and the
other was Lee I'm sure Chun Tong Guan is
one of the costars of this period in
weight songs life he was a eunuch
general who had captured weight songs
attention due to his early important
military victories he later on became
one of weight songs most trusted
intimates advising not only on the
military but state policy as well he was
very charismatic and knew how to lead
men in battle yeah I'm sure Chung was
another major insider at the court of
weight song he was a behind-the-scenes
administrator extraordinaire and had
risen up the ranks from the bottom
because of the power and influence of
Tong Guan and liangshiu Chung as well as
their constant access to wait song they
were both magnets for resentment ill
will when everything starts to fall to
pieces laid around you could bet these
two eunuchs and their faction will get
plenty of blame heaped on them around 11
13 11 14 quate songs slowly began to
draw some palace eunuchs into his
confidence and to advise them he even
trusted them to write imperial brush
edicts using his distinctive slender
gold calligraphy style later on even the
grand councillors are going to have to
go through Leon sure Chung to get to
wait song that's how
height the hold was to the innermost
core of central power and another thing
about eunuchs if history had proved one
thing by the 12th century it was that
once these eunuchs infiltrated the
innermost workings of the government it
was next to impossible to get rid of
them they were they were like flypaper
and made themselves you know
indispensable for certain things is the
years passed quite songs passion for
Taoism increased profoundly as i
mentioned weights on was always a
believer in Taoism in 1111 he recovered
from a very serious and life-threatening
illness through he believed the
involvement of a Taoist master who got
credit for Quade songs miraculous
recovery after that wait song had a few
dreams and visions it became convinced
that Taoism was the way there were
several masters after lil Hong Kong who
exercised great influence over weight
zone there was one laucher once she and
most of all Lynn Ling soo with Lin Ling
soos divine Empyrean brand of Taoism
that incorporated weight zone into its
version of a pantheon Wade's on found
something that he could enthusiastically
get behind and much to the chagrin of
everyone around him Wade's on was given
everyone the hard sell about accepting
Taoism to the you know to the degree he
was by 11 16 weight song was practically
a walking talking advertisement for Lin
Lang Sue's divine Imperium Taoism in
1114 wait song got things going with the
project to put together a new standard
doll was canon of works this put a lot
of taoist scholars and masters to work
in the result was a more organized
version of what they had previously with
a little whisper here and there from
Lynn Ling soo Wade's on between 11 16
and 11 19 went overboard in the amount
of taoist related construction projects
he initiated then whenever any palace
officials would go pay a visit to the
Emperor you can
bet they found Wade's all surrounded by
any number of Taoist masters trying to
get something or other out of him and
filling his head with all kinds of
notions weights on light to having them
around lid ling-su had the good fortune
to be lined up on the right side of some
good omens back in the 12th century if
you were a Taoist master and your
predictions came true and you had carry
it out all kinds of Taoist rituals to
force the turn of events I mean your
stature would rise Lynn Ling soo had a
good run for a while plenty of miracles
and and whatnot were attributed to his
talismans and incantations so his
stature was quite high and Wade's on
being one who didn't mind having you
know sink offense around ate it all up
and licked the plate as far as you know
Linda lling Sue's declarations that
quaint song was a Taoist God and you
know couldn't do no wrong wait song
showered this guy with titles and honors
and you know no doubt gave him plenty of
gifts of his own calligraphy I was like
Quaid songs autographed photo of its day
if there was anything important that
needed deciding weights on ran straight
to Li Ling soo by eleven seventeen it
was really starting to get out of hand
Quaid xong was fashioning himself as the
spiritual head of all Taoism in the land
Patricia ebury mentions about Lin Ling
soo quote he was of course not the first
religious professional to flatter a
ruler or speak of him as divine among
Buddhists the concept of expedient means
provided a rationale for gaining a ruler
support through displays of magic or
flattering references to him as a living
Buddha you know she also pointed out
that quote Daoists in the service of
Tong Emperor's undoubtedly often catered
to the rulers pre directions in hope of
gaining support and when several clerics
gained access to a ruler rivalry for
influence frequently resulted just as it
did among civil officials plenty of
Buddhist temples were taken over and
convert
to Taoist temples that's the kind of
stuff that was happening and waits on
was letting it all happen he put his
full weight behind Taoist education and
making it part of the curriculum of
schools the big four da was texts that
everyone had to learn with a loud sir
kwanzaa leads and the one Dean aging I'm
telling you not since the Tang Dynasty
to the Daoists at court have it so good
so wait song and Lin ling-su they had
this nice symbiotic relationship where
one fed off the other wait song got to
enjoy the Taoist masters endless
flattery and writings about his divinity
and lindig su he milked it for all he
could and had a real nice thing going
for himself in the Taoism business he
was the top producer then wait song
tried to reconcile Taoism and
Confucianism both couldn't stand each
other and they were bitter rivals at
court the Confucian asst looked at these
Taoist masters like they were you know
total Kooks total frauds but that didn't
mean wait song didn't at least try to
show through all kinds of fancy
explanations and sleight of hand that
these two rival philosophies actually
had a common origin quaint song said
quote the dow is everywhere it is in the
Confucian scholars administering of the
state it is in the litter ah T's
cultivating of themselves before there
was differentiation the separate paths
all returned to the early sages and
later sages fit together well since the
hon they have split and become different
and the learning of the Yellow Emperor
and Lauda is no longer one with the
learning of y'all xiuwen the Duke of Joe
and Confucius around 11 18 the Dow's
were feeling rather secure in their
position Lin Ling soo and His divine
Empyrean sect of Taoism had a had a
hammerlock on weight song as far as
royal support went they started to take
the opportunity to whisper in wade's
ohms air about these cunning Buddhists
and how was about time some
he dealt with them and it didn't stop
there Lin ling-su would even enlist the
Emperor's support to go after some of
his rival Taoist masters with wait song
support all kinds of restrictive
measures were past that hit the
Buddhists not just economically but in
their in their prayers as well official
changes were made to various ways
Buddhism could be practiced that it had
a slight to Taoist aroma to it and all
the while teaching was doing what he
could get weights on the coolant with
his Taoism thing this whole matter of
Buddhist versus Taoist was just adding
yet another divisive issue at court the
two heavyweights who finally put their
foot down and pushed back on this issue
where the eunuch general tone Guan and
the Crown Prince Prince one he was
closing it on 20 years old and already
had a mind of his own all it took in the
end was enough popular dissatisfaction
up top coupled with Lin ling-su ending
up on the wrong side of a few natural
disasters to topple him first a drought
and a flood and when disaster struck and
Lin Ling soo couldn't do anything about
it he was out just like that and in 11
19 as he made his way back to his
hometown of one Cho he was murdered and
with Lin ling-su out of the picture you
could guess right away which religion
started to make an immediate come back
but Wade's dog didn't let this diminish
his religious fervor as far as the
divine Empyrean sect of Taoism went in
for a penny in for a pound he still
embraced it but the good times are about
to end for this Emperor and historians
all agree that this Taoism phase of
weight songs rain was a big fat waste of
the taxpayers money and very little was
contributed back to society and
questions remain about Wade songs
relationship with dal ism was he really
such a true believer or did Taoism offer
him the best political advantages and
act as a counterweight to these
Confucian officials as soon as the year
turned to 11 28 d things took a turn
for the worse for weight song this is
basically the beginning of the end you'd
think with such happy times for the Song
Dynasty all this economic wealth Chi fun
being the greatest city in its day all
the trade and industry quaint song in
his court of merry men all the finest
artists literati Daoists and all kinds
of other hangers-on and his five dozen
children you can bet the weight song
Emperor was really enjoying himself they
must have felt that sure was great to be
the king and how happy for wait song to
be at the center the cleverest poet best
painter his fame as a calligrapher and
his slender gold style he fancied
himself quite the Taoist writer as well
and the best mouthpiece for the wisdom
contained in the divine and parian texts
huh what a great life he had but 1120
all over from now on wait song and the
whole northern song dynasty will be
fighting for their lives and when the
end comes oh man it's really gonna be
bad let's go back to CHP 126 yell you a
bocce he founded the catan liao dynasty
he reigned from 907 to 926 the Liao
dynasty had a great run but there was a
new badass in town who by 1100 was
really given them a lot of pressure by
the time the leal tensas Emperor began
his reign at 1101 everyone knew they
weren't long for this world here was the
problem as far as the whole song dynasty
top leadership went in January 1005
after the Jun's own Emperor took a major
drubbing from the kittens when he tried
to recover some lost china territory
they were forced into signing this this
treaty this was the treaty of China and
the Chaon you enter Hmong and for a
hundred years the song had been paying
for this treaty because the song were in
a vastly inferior position that is to
say the owl could whack them any time
they wanted to in order to keep the
kicked on leal army at
Bay the song government per the terms of
each hun UN treaty had to send an annual
tribute payment of a hundred thousand
ounces of silver and two hundred
thousand bolts of silk that's a lot of
happy coats and further to this both
Emperor's were now on equal terms with
the Liao Emperor being prima Center
Paris it was a totally raw deal for the
song and now a century later the kittens
were looking vulnerable and talk began
to waft about the palace and chi Fong
saying that now as the golden time to
weasel out of that annual tribute
payment but even more than the payment
was the whole matter of the 16
prefectures we discussed this before in
the five dynasties and ten kingdoms
episode CHP 27 and again in the upper g
episode in Chinese this area was called
the yin yin surely Ocho it was an area
running east to west from about
present-day Beijing to dong and shaanxi
province but a hundred miles or so not a
huge piece of real estate but it was an
area of extreme importance this is the
gateway into the heartland this was the
this was the Beltway that ran along the
Great Wall and served as well China's
closest thing they had to imagine o-line
let me quickly recap from a past episode
the five dynasties and ten kingdoms this
period followed the fall of the Tong it
ran from 90 729 7970 two years and all
five consecutive dynasties in the north
of China later Liang later tongue later
gene later hun and later Joe and out of
the later Joe arises chacua' Yang who
found in the northern song the later
tongue 9 23 29 36 this was one of the
shot or Turk dynasties was founded by
Lee to ensue in 923 after he overthrew
the hated later Leon dynasty 13 years
later the later Tom bit
dust 2 after the later Tom came the
later gene they hold gin and it's these
guys and their founder surging tongue
who in 938 hands those 16 prefectures
over to the Leo and the later gene go
down in history as a puppet dynasty of
the Keaton liao and from that point on
until the time of Wade's own those 16
prefecture 'he's were property of the
leo try as they might the song just just
couldn't get that land back some tight
zone tried twice and failed miserably
than jun zone tried and failed which you
know resulted in this big fat annual
tribute payment on top of the loss of
the 16 prefecture 'he's so shaking loose
once and for all from the Liao was a
priority and now with the change in the
dynamic up in the northeast of China
there was an opening and the Song
Dynasty had more headaches than just a
Leo to the west was the Western Shia
dynasty we discussed them too they were
ton good people who had moved to these
lands around shaanxi and gansu during
the Tang Dynasty they too had been able
to extract an annual payment from the
song of a hundred and thirty thousand
bolts of silk fifty thousand ounces of
silver and twenty thousand caddies of
tea a caddy is a little over a pound
this all wasn't as bad as it sounded
these annual tributes to the Leo and the
Western Shah only consumed maybe two to
three percent of the annual revenue
coming into the Treasury and the truth
is all the silver that ended up going to
these guys ultimately found its way back
to China because no there wasn't much in
the way of things to buy in those parts
so the silver came back to china in the
form of purchases of chinese goods by
1099 under the hood xong emperor the one
immediately preceding quite song the
western shah were pacified with his
eunuch general Tong Guan Quaid's on
spent no small amount of money and
effort to settle things in the West the
Western Shaw weren't to push
over and you know rose up against the
song invading armies things quieted down
and the fighting was quelled but the
song weren't able to recover these
former Chinese lands to the west these
military expeditions against the Western
Shah and the changtung Tibetans as well
located in and around shining and Ching
hai province might have ended well for
the Soul army but by the time it was all
over and they declared victory and went
home the song army was exhausted not
every scholar agrees that this was a
great military victory for Wade's own
having all these bad guys to the west
and north stretch the limits of the song
Treasury with military expenditures
running at about seventy-five percent of
state revenue it was early on around
eleven-fifteen that word first got to
weights on Bethany I'll we're starting
to soften up he heard this from a catan
defector named jolly ensue and it was
from jolly on so that waits on first
heard about how the Jurchens had been
very aggressive in their lands east of
the ki taan and we're starting to push
the Liao around then leal rulers were at
this grave time having their own
internal political squabbles that made
their situation even worse so John Young
soo was the one who sort of got the ball
rolling as far as the notion of the song
army helping the Jurchens out and their
attempt to put an end to the kittens of
the Liao dynasty the apogee of the
Jurchens the leader who arose to lead
them to greatness in the region was
called aguda wanyan aguda he is the
founder of the Qin Dynasty and like
several dynasty founders his temple name
was tied sue he was from the one yen
tribe of the Jurchens they were the ones
who unified all the clans up in that
region into one big nation since 11 14
aguda had been leading troops against
the Liao in chi lien and Lee owning and
by 1122
have made fast work of the Leo and they
were back on their heels I'm jumping
ahead though beginning in 11 17 Quaid's
on after being talked into it by Jolyon
sue sent the first of what would be
seven delegations to the Jurchens to
discuss this proposed alliance against
the Liao jolly on sue had thoroughly
convinced wait song that if the song
army invaded the 16 prefecture zat yen
ching they would be welcomed with
flowers and open arms as liberators hmm
that sounds familiar so this was the big
issue at court to invade or not to
invade this was no small matter the song
army was already stretched beyond their
means the Treasury wasn't looking too
full but most of all this war in the
North that the leadership in Kaifeng was
mulling over was a very risky thing to
do and could have unintended
consequences Quade song allowed sigh
Jing and Tom Guan to make the final
decision on this the biggest advocate
for war was one foo wong had argued
quotes although the North and South have
gotten along for a hundred years we have
suffered repeated humiliations for
several rains the best military strategy
is to compound weaknesses and to attack
when the other side is blinded if we do
not take the region now the Jurchen will
grow stronger and the old territories of
the central plain will never be ours
again One Flew had reason to believe
this the gene armies were rolling all
over the Keaton's and just savaging them
while all this is going on 11 15 16 17
18 wait song as I mentioned earlier was
you know neck deep in this Taoist kick
Linda Ling soo and practicing the divine
Empyrean was you know mostly on his mind
so it was during a time when waves on
really didn't have his eye on the ball
that all these potentially dynasty
threatening events were happening in 11
19 wait saw was finally convinced and
the Alliance on the sea was signed the
high Shang term bung it was called that
because the song and gene
envoys who worked out the treaty over a
period of years had to surreptitiously
cross the ball high C to meet each other
because the land routes were still
controlled by the Liao catan forces the
song were all hot to sign this deal
because it involved getting the 16
prefectures back that was what they
wanted if they join together with the
gene armies to drive the Li all out of
town part of the deal was that this
territory given away to the Liao by
surging tongue in 938 would return to
China one foo and Han Guan were the
strongest advocates for attacking the
Liao after all the way things were going
up there if now wasn't the perfect time
to get those important lands back when
was pushing back against one foo and Tom
Guan was its hi jing he went on record
against any alliance with the gin
against the Keaton's he smelled nothing
but trouble and in the end he was right
in 1120 Quade song sent Charlie on
soothe the Leal turncoat now in the
employ of the song to go see aguda and
talk things over in those days you know
a simple mission like that that was like
a six-month business trip when the to
finally meet in a gouda explains to them
the way it's going to be from now on or
else Jolyon sulla realizes only too late
that these Jurchens aren't gonna turn
out to be the best allies to have living
next door he starts to get the feeling
that the Jurchens are gonna be a lot
worse than the katana liao and man did
he ever get that one right a Gouda told
jolly on so straight out whatever
tribute you gave to the Leal now you
give it to us okay so much for that cost
savings that the Treasury was counting
on and I Gouda he was one tough guy a
tough negotiator he didn't use any
foreign minister or envoy he negotiated
by himself face to face and he was one
intimidating guy aside from the tribute
that okuda was demanding now he was
reneging on his promises about the 16
prefectures to
before they were going to get everything
now that had been whittled down to some
of them nonetheless by eleven twenty per
the agreement made by agoda Quaid's on
pulls the trigger and then go ahead is
given to carry out their end of the
agreement and take the city of yen jing
in yen prefecture that was the main
mission for the song army but wait songs
luck had run out domestic trouble was
brewing down and judge young and
spreading around the region there to
jang su on clay and young she thanks to
corruption heavy taxation and a growing
resentment that so much treasure was
annually being given away to foreigners
a rebellion broke out led by a gent
named Fung Wah as rebellions went this
one wasn't very long-lasting it was put
down in a year but it meant having to
delay the taking of Yanjing and it was
one more campaign to wear down the
already stretched song army wait song of
course and tom wanna go deal with his
mess wait song had given Tong Guan full
authority to write brush edicts and wait
songs name his task was to head south
and deal with this fon la rebelion take
back all the cities and towns that had
fallen including most notably hangzhou
by May 1121 fond LA and his family have
been captured and the worst was over the
timing to have to deal with this
rebellion was terrible it meant having
the delay the taking of Yanjing by a
year and you can imagine what a gutte
was thinking because he didn't think too
much of the Chinese he was already
sensing something about their viability
as an empire but he was still giving
them the benefit of the doubt as Wade
songs armies were bogged down dealing
with fond la hago does Jean armies were
just rolling over the Keaton's and one
by one they were picking off the 16
prefectures themselves without any need
for some army involvement this naturally
embolden agudah who must have been
thinking gee these guys are taking
forever to mobilize and now
you know who needs them the song hopes
had originally been pinned on getting
these 16 prefectures back finally then
their hopes have been dwindled down to
getting as many as possible back now
after looking totally useless in front
of a Gouda and after delaying their end
of the deal for a year I coulda had
changed his mind about everything now he
was saying the song could take yen jing
only and he added a caveat that they
could only have yen ching if they
invaded and made a difference in the
taking of the city to remember early
12th century yen jing is you know in and
around where you know beijing is today
throughout 1120 and into 1121 Agatha was
really turning the thumbscrews on Wade
song and trying to force a result but
with the fun love rebellion not quite
over yet and Tom Guan tied down in the
south all the song leadership could do
was stall and you know say they were
coming you know not just yet not till
April 1122 with a song able to mobilize
their 100,000 strong army led by trustee
and dependable Tom Guan they started
marching north towards yen jing two
offenses were launched against the catan
holdouts in the city the first attempt
failed and the second one went even
worse prior to attacking Tong Guan had
reached out to his church and
counterparts and requested they combine
together to help defeat the Lee off aye
khuda was thinking why in the heck do I
have to help these guys out I gave them
one single thing to do and now they
can't even do that I mean who needs
these guys well the taking of yen ching
by the song army didn't go well fact was
a good old fashioned debacle and when I
Gerda got wind of this it changed his
mind about his new song allies I'm even
the residents of Yanjing sided with the
gym so much for welcoming the song with
open arms well by now I Gerda felt there
was no longer any need to be civil to
these guys he still offered the song the
city of yen jing plus six other
prefectures and the kicker was
only the Han populace of those
prefectures would be subject to the song
Emperor everyone else any non hon were
subjects to the gym well how are you
going to do that and it didn't end there
all of a sudden the amount of tribute
demanded was increased weight song
didn't have any bargaining chips and
with the specter of a possible gene
invasion looming over his head in 11 23
wait song did what he had to do and gave
in on the demands he got yen jing all
right and some of the pre factors but at
a very high price two hundred thousand
ounces of silver 300,000 bolts of silk
and 1 million strings of cash that would
be paid in the form of a one-time land
tax levied on the inhabitants of newly
reacquired yen jing this was about
twenty percent of the entire revenue
that could be had from yen jing so all
things considered this was a raw deal to
the max nonetheless weights on felt that
you know being the emperor who recovered
at least a portion of the sixteen
prefecture suppose you know something to
celebrate but actually it wasn't much to
celebrate when Tom Guan and the song
army entered yen ching all they got was
a husk of a city the gene had already
been there for six months and it
completely trashed the place and looted
it for anything of value 1123 this was a
low point but it was going to get a lot
worse the war with the Liao being
economically raped by the gene and now
all the social problems acquired from
winning back parts of the sixteen
prefectures including all the refugees
needing assistance was not quite but
almost the final straw for weight song
in the northern song dynasty had it not
been for Wade songs period of building
all these monuments all the other
construction he commissioned all the
money spent on promoting Taoism if not
for such wasteful spending I suppose it
might not have been as bad as it was no
matter which country our civilization or
what century you were talking about to
manage an army costs a ton of money
without any fine
sing you couldn't pay soldiers obtain
weapons or do anything to launch a
military expedition and that's the boat
wait song sorta found himself in when
1123 rolled around here's what's hiding
son it's high toss at about weight zone
at this juncture in 1122 because of the
opening of the northern border
expenditures were exceptional all the
Treasuries both the Privy Purse and
government were empty much to wait songs
dismay at the time Wong foo was worried
by the losses so he took the advice of
an old clerk to institute a service
exemption fee throughout the country the
service that one was being exempt from
was the military service in yen which
everyone should have contributed to but
they were now being allowed to give
money instead but this fee only raised
about 62 million strings of cash and by
the spring of 11 25 most of us had been
burned through in 11 23 wait zone got
some good news a guba died in September
of that year the bad news was that
agudas younger brother wenyan which he
my became the new gene emperor tide zone
and he was much worse than a gouda as
far as leading on the northern song one
young would seem I wasn't looking to be
a good neighbor with a northern song
after he captured and killed the last
liao dynasty Emperor tent or he set his
sights on the song from everything he
was able to tell the song and their rich
city of Kaifeng were ripe for the taking
quaint song sent a congratulatory letter
carried by a diplomatic mission to the
new emperor tight song when this
delegation returned to chi Fong after
meeting the new gene Emperor they told
everyone that while they were guests at
the gene court they were threatened
treated shabbily and in no uncertain
terms led to believe that sooner or
later the jinn were going to take them
out 1125 wasn't looking good at all
spies sent to see what the gene were up
to came back with alarming reports that
indicated they were getting set to
invade China
by the end of 1125 quaid xong had to
resort to melting down whatever gold
ceremonial objects he could spare in
order to try and buy off the gene and
delay what was increasingly looking like
the inevitable and the inevitable
happened in November of 1125 went on
guad rushed back to the palace with the
latest update Wade's on was still hoping
for a miracle and exploring ways to keep
the gene in their northern lands but
Tong Guan gave Wade's on the bad news
the gene had already invaded and one
army was heading towards ty urine and
another army was heading towards chi
Fong the Jurchens were coming the excuse
that the gene gave to invade revolved
around a gene defector who ran to the
court of Wade's own to try and cut a
side deal now part of the agreement made
between the gene and song was that
neither side could cut any side deals
with anyone so by merely talking to this
gene defect her name Zhang Jia they had
broken one of the terms of the treaty
because the song had negotiated with
John jaha that was all the gym tides own
Emperor needed to break any agreements
and go after them then the I'll ever
attend saw had already been captured and
killed the Liao dynasty was no more now
it was time to deal with the rich
picking the south of Manchuria before
moving in on the northern song
territories Jin tied song had offered
wait song a bum deal move out everything
south of the Yellow River and allow the
gene to take over all lands north of
there and then we'll all be square no
invasion would take place while Wade's
one was fulminating what to do about
that raw deal the gene went on a rampage
not only did they take back everything
that once belonged to the liao they also
snatched yen jing back from the song and
we're heading in a southerly direction
it was at this point that wait zone and
his closest advisors started to think
about a worst-case scenario you see the
counselors that worked for Wade's all
knew that most of the time it was
necessary to keep the Emperor in the
dark so it was off in the case where
waits on
lived in this big bubble and hadn't a
clue about you know which end was up
especially whenever bad news was
concerned so it was quite a wake-up call
in 1125 when all the sudden the roof was
starting to cave in and finally weights
on was getting a feel for how desperate
the situation was the crown prince quan
was 25 years old by now so he knew what
was going on and when it was suggested
that weight song escaped to the south
and begin setting up a
government-in-exile prince one didn't go
for that at all you mean weight song
abdicate some flee south and prince quan
becomes the new emperor right when the
Jurchens are about to sac chi Fong well
he didn't like that idea as the Djinn
marched on chi Fong their envoys we're
still negotiating with Wade songs team
Wade's own had this to say quote two
cycles of 12 years have passed since i
succeeding to my highly virtuous
ancestors was placed above the literati
and common people despite the caution in
my heart my errors have been visible to
the world mediocre myself i inherited a
flourishing dynasty but the avenues for
criticism were blocked so that on a
day-to-day basis i heard only seek
offense favorites gained power and the
greedy could do as they pleased wise and
able scholars were caught in the
prescription infections and for years
have not been able to influence
political affairs taxes and impositions
have exhausted the people's resources
military and labor service have worn out
the army and levies many of the projects
undertaken proved of no benefit
extravagance became the fashion
depleting the sources of wealth yet
profit seekers still keep making demands
even though the clothing and rations for
the army have not yet been secured those
with more than enough to eat still enjoy
the benefits of their wealth and rank
ominous portents did not bring me to my
senses nor did I recognize the
resentment of the multitudes
the fault is all mine but my regrets are
too late well he got that right there
weren't any options available to the
northern song government than to cut and
run wait song attempted gallantly to
rally the forces and be open to almost
any kind of idea but it was too late the
barbarians were almost at the gate after
everyone took stock of the situation it
was decided wait song should abdicate
and get out of town ASAP and so wait
song wrote out the instructions of what
needed to be taken care of when he
departed and wait song was unaware of
just how dire his predicament was while
he handled it with urgency he just
didn't know how urgent it really was he
should have already hit the road days or
weeks before why he waited till
Christmas Day 1125 to formally abdicate
well I'm sure he wondered that too later
on and that was that he reigned from
februari 1102 January 1125 in these
three episodes with the help of Patricia
a breeze book on Emperor Wade song we've
taken a closer look than usual at any
individual Emperor when wait song took
over for his brother the chill zone
Emperor and 1100 although China wasn't
whole and they had the katana Leo in the
Western sha to deal with times were good
for the Middle Kingdom people walking
around China's largest cities surely
thought never in Chinese history did the
lab I Ching have it so good we saw how
wait song demonstrating much greater
interest in the arts than he did for
governing he didn't neglect his duties
but historians agree he could have paid
more attention had weights on taken the
benefit of the world's biggest economy
to build up the nation the military and
save for a rainy day the tide of history
might have been influenced but once
weight song got a hold of that Imperial
credit card he went on a spending binge
and now in 1125 all the chickens had
come home to roost but quaid song
doesn't die until 11 35 so he's got
another 10 years
to live yet and therefore his story
isn't over yet we'll pick up next time
and look at the excruciating end of
waves on in part four I'm planning
another quick china trip for early June
Shanghai Beijing guangzhou got to make
sure i'm home for the world cup opener
june twelfth 10am claremont standard
time between brazil and croatia if you
haven't checked out the new and improved
CHP website go check it out fully
optimized for mobile devices thank you
Paul in Edinburgh Scotland ladies and
gentlemen this is laszlo Montgomery
signing off from a nice hot and dry
Claremont California that's right the
city of trees and PhDs we have more of
the latter per square inch than anywhere
else and that's documented just like
nuff said take care everyone and it's my
greatest hope in the world that you'll
join me next time for another exciting
episode of the China history podcast